# Simulation-of-Tax-Evasion-and-Tax-Collection
When constructing the model using the ABM approach, the first thing to design is the agents and the market economic model. The agents designed in this model involve three roles: the tax bureau (T), farmers (F_i) and herdsmen (H_i) (𝑖∈𝑔,  𝑏,  𝑛). Among the farmers, there is a good person F_g, a bad person F_b, and a neutral person F_b. Among the herdsmen, there is a good person H_g, a bad person H_b, and a neutral person H_n. The initial asset a_i^j (j∈{F,H}) of each of them is 100. In order to better study the economic changes under different conditions, the total amount of currency designed in this model is fixed, and there will be no phenomenon of currency outflow.
The model assumes that the daily demand of farmers is only meat, while the demand of herdsmen is only rice. One is protein and the other is carbohydrate, both of which are essential nutrients for the human body and belong to rigid demands. However, farmers can only produce rice and not meat, and herdsmen can only produce meat and not rice. Therefore, they have the motivation to trade with each other. The model also assumes that rice and meat are not completely homogeneous commodities, and they do not have a 100% substitution relationship. The main component of rice is carbohydrate, with a small amount of protein and fat. The main components of meat are protein and fat, with a small amount of carbohydrate. Therefore, they also have a certain complementary relationship. Moreover, the production of farmers and herdsmen is stable. As a result, the demand curves of these two types of commodities present the shape of a concave function.
Every day, farmers and herdsmen go to the market to buy the commodities they need. Each farmer sells a bowl of rice every day and buys a piece of meat from the herdsmen. The herdsmen sell a piece of meat every day and buy a bowl of rice from the farmers. However, sometimes farmers and herdsmen also sell two bowls of rice or two pieces of meat every day, with a probability of 〖prob〗^m, which depends on the daily financial distribution of the tax bureau. The revenue r of the tax bureau comes from tax revenue t and fine revenue f. The tax bureau will evenly distribute the daily revenue to all farmers and herdsmen for them to carry out the construction and maintenance of public facilities, such as building roads, cleaning up fallen leaves, etc. In this thesis, building roads is taken as an example. The more funds the tax bureau allocates for road construction, the higher the enthusiasm of farmers and herdsmen for road maintenance, and the better the maintenance level of the roads. In this way, the probability that farmers and herdsmen transport two bowls of rice and two pieces of meat to the market every day will be higher, and finally the probability of making transactions twice a day will also be higher. Therefore, the revenue of the tax bureau is positively correlated with the probability of making transactions twice a day.
It is assumed that the probability of making transactions twice a day is 〖prob〗^m, and the relationship between 〖prob〗^m and the revenue r of the tax bureau is set as follows:
〖prob〗^m=r/6
r=t+f
After arriving at the market, the good people, bad people, and neutral people among the farmers and herdsmen will randomly match for transactions. That is, a good person may conduct transactions with a good person, a neutral person, or a bad person, and the probability of each match is equal, which is 1/3. Their purchasing desires are the same, so the probability of a transaction being completed is also the same. The seller will randomly quote a price between 2.0, 2.1 and 5.0. The higher the price quoted by the seller, the lower the market demand. And because there is a certain complementary relationship as well as a certain substitution relationship between the rice produced by farmers and the meat produced by herdsmen, the model assumes that the demand curves of both rice and meat are concave functions. To a certain extent, the demand curve can reflect the buyer's purchasing desire, that is, the higher the price, the lower the purchasing desire, and thus the less the quantity demanded. Therefore, the model also assumes that there is a negative correlation between the price and the purchasing desire.
It is assumed that the quoted price is p_i^j, and the relationship between 〖prob〗^b and the quoted price p_i^j is assumed as follows: 
〖prob〗^b=2.1/〖p_i^j〗^1.3 
In order to increase the probability of a transaction, the bad people and the neutral people will sell at a reduced price. However, reducing the price will decrease their profits, so they will save costs by evading taxes. They will choose to underreport by 5%, and the tax rate is 10% of the original selling price. In this way, not only will the profit not be affected, but it will actually increase. Every day, there is an 80% probability, 〖prob〗_b^e, that the bad people will evade taxes. At the same time, when quoting a price, they will underreport by 5% to increase the probability of a transaction. The neutral people have a 50% probability, 〖prob〗_n^e, of evading taxes and will also underreport the price by 5%. The good people will never evade taxes, and they will pay taxes at a tax rate of π^t = 10% of the daily transaction amount.
However, tax evasion also brings risks. If discovered by the tax bureau, the bad people and the neutral people will not only have to make up the unpaid taxes but also pay a fine equivalent to twice the amount of the evaded taxes. Every time they evade taxes, there is a probability of being discovered by the tax bureau, and the probability of being discovered is 〖prob〗_t, which is also the success rate of the tax bureau's inspection.
After being discovered by the tax bureau for tax evasion, both the bad people and the neutral people will become timid and cautious. This period is called the cooling-off period D_i. The cooling-off period of the bad people, D_b = 1, that is, the cooling-off period is one day. During this period, they will not evade taxes, but after the cooling-off period, their tax evasion rate will return to 80%. The neutral people have a cooling-off period of two days.
The farmers and herdsmen in the model only need to pay value-added tax and do not need to pay income tax. And in order to avoid the closed loop of the value-added tax chain and prevent the situation of zero value-added, the farmers and herdsmen will not be able to obtain input tax for the goods they purchase, but they need to pay output tax based on the sales amount when selling. Or this model can also be understood as only requiring the payment of consumption tax.
The following are the parameters used for computer simulation:
i	g,b,n
good people, bad people and neutral people
j	F,H
farmers, herdsmen
a_i^j		asset
〖prob〗^m	〖prob〗^m=r/6	probability of a second transaction
r	r=t+f	daily income of the tax bureau
t		daily tax revenue of the tax bureau
f		daily fine revenue of the tax bureau
p_i^j		price
〖prob〗^b	〖prob〗^b=2.1/〖p_i^j〗^1.3 	probability of a deal being concluded
〖prob〗_i^e		probability of tax evasion
π^t	π^t=10%	tax rate
π^f	π^f=200%	
c	c=0.0,0.3 0.6,0.9
cost of the invoice system
〖prob〗_c^t		success rate of tax inspection
D_i	D_b=1, D_n=2	cooling-off period
The above simulation is the data statistical results of the paper invoice system under different inspection success rates. However, the cost of the blockchain electronic invoice system cannot be the same as that of the paper invoice. On the contrary, there is a high probability that the cost of the blockchain electronic invoice system is higher than that of the paper invoice. Therefore, for the blockchain electronic invoice, we will make the following assumptions:
I. The cost of the blockchain electronic invoice system is c, while the cost of the paper invoice system is so low compared with the daily revenue of the tax bureau that it can be ignored, that is, it is 0. In the model, we will calculate and simulate the data statistical situations when the cost of the blockchain electronic invoice system is 0.3, 0.6, and 0.9, and make a comparison with the data of the paper invoice.
II. Regarding the tax revenue and fine revenue, the tax bureau will first use them to maintain the system cost c. The maintenance of the system cost is defined in the model as the salary paid to IT personnel, and the daily expenses of these IT personnel are to buy rice and meat in the market. Therefore, the salary of IT personnel will eventually flow back to the farmers and herdsmen. Of course, the actual system cost is definitely not just as simple as the salary of IT personnel. There are also server fees paid to suppliers, patent fees, water and electricity fees, etc. However, the ultimately paid costs will all flow back to the food market because food is a necessity. And in order to simplify the model and make the process clearer, the model assumes that the money spent on road construction and IT by the tax bureau will be evenly distributed back to the farmers and herdsmen.
III. The relationship between the probability of secondary transactions 〖prob〗^m and the fiscal expenditure is as follows: 
〖prob〗^m=(r-c)/6
For the paper invoice system, c=0。
